h1. Duplicate Action for ActiveScaffold

Currently, this gem is compatible with ActiveScaffold >= 3.3.x gems, which works for rails >= 3.x.

h2. Overview

This gem adds an action to clone records. By default will only set attributes and belongs_to associations. You must override initialize_dup in your model or define a method to clone the record and set in conf.duplicate.method.

h2. Installation

You'll need at least ActiveScaffold 3.3.x to use this, and rails 3.x


<pre>
gem install active_scaffold_duplicate
</pre>

h2. Usage

h4. Step 1

Override initialize_dup in the model to set some attributes or copy associations:

<pre>
# app/models/bill.rb
class Bill < ActiveRecord::Base
  belongs_to :customer
  has_many :items
  
  def initialize_dup(other)
    super
    self.items = other.items.map(&:dup)
  end
end
</pre>

h4. Step 2

Add duplicate action.

<pre>
class BillsController < ApplicationController
  active_scaffold do |conf|
    conf.actions << :duplicate
  end
end
</pre>

h4. Step 3

Change method to :get in link if you want to display create form instead of cloning record. Set position to :replace or :after for inline display, or enable page rendering.

<pre>
class BillsController < ApplicationController
  active_scaffold do |conf|
    conf.duplicate.link.method = :get
    conf.duplicate.link.position = :after
    #conf.duplicate.link.page = true # for new page rendering
  end
end
</pre>

Also you can change it globally.

<pre>
class ApplicationController < ActionController::Base
  active_scaffold.set_defaults do |conf|
    conf.duplicate.link.method = :get
    conf.duplicate.link.position = :after
    #conf.duplicate.link.page = true # for new page rendering
  end
end
</pre>

You can access to record which is being duplicated in your form overrides with @old_record variable.

If you use :post method, you can enable refresh_list to refresh the list instead of only adding new record at top, or set action_after_clone to open edit form for example:

<pre>
  conf.duplicate.refresh_list = true
  conf.duplicate.action_after_clone = :edit
</pre>

h2. Before/after controller methods

It's possible to define some methods to add some custom code which require access to session or request params:

* For :post method, before_duplicate_save(record) and after_duplicate_save(record) can be defined, which will be called before and after saving the record respectively.
* For :new method, before_duplicate_new(record) can be defined, which will be called before rendering.

h2. Support

If you have issues installing the gem, search / post to the "Active Scaffold":http://groups.google.com/group/activescaffold forum or "Create an issue":http://github.com/activescaffold/active_scaffold_duplicate/issues

h2. Contributing

Fork, hack, push, and request a pull:

http://github.com/activescaffold/active_scaffold_duplicate/

h2. License

Released under the MIT license (included).

h2. Author

Contact me:
<pre>
  Sergio Cambra - irb(main):001:0> ( 'sergioATprogramatica._see_s'.gsub('_see_', 'e').gsub('AT', '@') )
</pre>
